
OBJECTIVES: A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of Gegen Qinlian decoction (GQD) for normalizing 
hyperglycemia in T2DM patients by pooling all available RCTs.
METHODS: All relevant RCTs were searched using the keywords: "GQD", "T2DM", 
"hyperglycemia" and "insulin" from the electronic databases including PubMed, 
EMBASE, Cochrane Library, Korean databases, Chinese medical databases, and 
Indian scientific database. Each RCT included the control (metformin) and 
experimental (GQD+metformin) groups. The outcome measures were the assessments 
of changes in the severity of diabetic symptoms such as "markedly effective" and 
"effective" (fasting plasma glucose levels: <7 and 7-9, respectively; 2h 
postprandial glucose levels: <8.3 and 8.3-10.5mmol/L, respectively) after 8 
weeks of treatment in each RCT.
RESULTS: There were 186 articles selected from the initial searches and 181 
irrelevant and duplicate articles were removed. Finally, 5 relevant RCTs 
involving 499 patients were included in this review. The meta-analysis showed 
the odds ratio of favorable GQD effect on the marked effectiveness of glycemia 
(n=499, OR: 2.34, 95% CI: 1.63-3.37, P<0. In a subgroup analysis by GQD 
composition, 4 RCTs with original GQD composition also showed the odds ratio of 
the original GQD effect on the marked effectiveness of glycemia (n=339, OR: 
2.58; 95% CI=1.65-4.02, P<0.0001) in comparison to the control group. All five 
studies used an appropriate method for randomization of the subjects but some of 
them included allocation concealment and blinding of patients and practitioners. 
There was no significant publication bias in the meta-analysis.
CONCLUSION: The GQD and metformin had a synergistic effect on glycemic control 
in comparison to metformin alone as a T2DM therapy. More rigorous and larger 
studies are needed to confirm the therapeutic efficacy of GQD for hyperglycemia 
due to the moderate to high risk of bias in the 5 RCTs.