Plants of the genus Terminalia are amongst the most widely used plants for 
traditional medicinal purposes worldwide. Many species are used for their 
antibacterial, antifungal, antiprotozoal, antiviral, antidiarrhoeal, analgesic, 
antimalarial, antioxidant, antiinflammatory and anticancer activities. Wound 
healing and cardiovascular effects have also been credited to some species. Many 
Terminalia species have multiple beneficial effects for multiple diseases and 
ailments. Indeed, the Indian species Terminalia chebula is known as the king of 
plants in Ayurveda due to its broad range of medicinal uses. However, apart from 
the reported ethnopharmacological uses of many Terminalia species, surprisingly 
few studies have rigorously examined this important genus for their medical 
properties/mechanisms and phytochemistry. This is likely due to the high tannin 
content common to many Terminalia species and the perception that these tannins 
may be responsible for much of their beneficial properties. As the complexities 
of tannins make them poor candidates for drug design, most interest in 
Terminalia species has been for their pharmacognostic and nutraceutical value 
and they have often been overlooked as potentials for drug discovery. However, 
recent reports have identified many other interesting phytochemicals and 
demonstrated that these may be responsible for several of the reported 
bioactivities of the Terminalia species used in traditional medicinal systems. 
The last decade has seen a large increase in the number of studies into the use 
of Terminalia species as therapeutic agents. Several species used in Ayurvedic 
medicine (Terminalia arjuna, Terminalia bellerica, Terminalia catappa, T. 
chebula) in particular have received much recent attention. Similarly, recent 
reports have also highlighted the medicinal potential of species from Africa, 
Australia and the Americas. The aim of this report is to summarise the recent 
research into the medicinal properties, phytochemistry and therapeutic 
mechanisms of Terminalia species and thus to highlight and direct future areas 
of research into the medicinal activities of this important genus.