Medicinal properties of the food species are one of the poorly 
documented and important areas of ethnopharmacology. The present survey 
quantitatively documented the medicinal foods prescribed by the 
non-institutionally trained siddha practitioners of Tiruvallur district of Tamil 
Nadu.
METHODS: Field work was carried out between December 2014 and April 2017 using a 
questionnaire. The illnesses mentioned by the informants were grouped as illness 
categories on the basis of emic perceptions. Sufficiency of sampling of this 
survey was assessed by plotting the cumulative number of UR and Shannon-Wiener's 
index. The indices such as informant consensus factor (FIC), Index of Agreement 
on Remedies (IAR), and Cultural Food Significance Index (CFSI) were calculated.
RESULTS: This study documented 165 medicinal foods used by 82 
non-institutionally trained siddha practitioners of Tiruvallur district, and 
73.93% of these preparations were plant based. Among the animal taxa, 82.05% 
were represented by fish taxa. The illness category gastrointestinal ailments is 
the majorly cited illness category treated with plant-based formulations. The 
illness categories viz., gastrointestinal ailments, hemorrhoids, and neural 
ailments had high consensus under the group of plant-based medicinal foods. In 
animal-based medicinal foods, kapha ailments had gained 23.07% of UR. The 
illness categories such as bone fractures, male reproductive ailments, blood 
ailments, and anabolic had high FIC values.
CONCLUSIONS: Deeper studies on different dietary cultures of India may help to 
derive better interpretations on food-medicine continuum. This study identified 
some important claims such as the use of citron, pomegranate and Solanum 
americanum (gastrointestinal ailments), Abutilon indicum, onions and elephant 
foot yam (hemorrhoids), Boerhavia diffusa (urinary ailments), Moringa oleifera 
(anemia), Aloe vera (gynecological ailments), Eclipta prostrata (liver 
ailments), ivy gourd (diabetes), citron (hypertension), Centella asiatica 
(psychological ailments), spade nose shark (lactogogue), reticulate whipray 
(wheezing and bronchitis), Katelysia opima (impotence), Indian squid (anemia), 
and Indian oil sardine (anabolic). More studies on these claims will help 
identify novel functional foods to add to the field of medical nutrition 
therapy, with traditional brand identity. Robust studies on the documentation of 
the traditional knowledge on marine resources will yield a good database for 
various stakeholders and policy makers.