ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The Zeliangrong people with their yearlong 
experiences still depend on the medicinal plants for primary healthcare. Some of 
the medicinal plants used by the community exhibits established pharmacological 
activities which signify the importance of the traditional knowledge of the 
tribes. Besides, many other species traditionally used by the tribes assume to 
have pharmacological potentiality.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The study aimed to identify the medicinally and 
pharmacologically important species with understanding the traditional healing 
practices and to compare medicinal plant knowledge among the informants of the 
three tribes under Zeliangrong group.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Data were collected by interviewing selected 27 herbal 
healers using modified semi-structured questionnaires. Identification and 
documentation of all the species have been made using standard taxonomic 
procedure. Ethnomedicinal uses of all the recorded species was analyzed with 
computation of the use reports for each species and Informant Consensus Factor.
RESULTS: The study recorded 145 medicinal plants used in healing practices by 
the Zeliangrong tribes. Except 2 species, all are Angiospermic plants found 
mostly in wild condition. These medicinal plants are used for treating about 59 
different health ailments categorized under 13 ICPC disease categories. Highest 
ICF (0.75) was found in Digestive disorder with 174 use reports for 44 plant 
species. Besides the established medicinal plants in the Indian System of 
medicine like Acorus calamus, Centella asiatica, Oroxylum indicum and 
Phyllanthus emblica, a number of other species like Ageratum conizoides, 
Blumeopsis flava, Clerodendrum glandulosum, Gynura cusimbua, Hedyotis scandens 
and Paederia foetida also has maximum use reports. Among the species with higher 
use reports, 2 species namely Clerodendrum glandulosum and Paederia foetida are 
exclusively used for the treatment of hypertension, and bone fracture and sprain 
respectively indicating their remarkable medicinal values and acceptability. Out 
of the total 145 species, only 24 are shared by all the three tribes with 11 
species used for similar diseases.
CONCLUSION: The medicinal plants with higher use reports can be evaluated for 
validation of pharmacological activities and their toxicity. The Indigenous 
Knowledge System of Zeliangrong community for herbal remedies may be of immense 
value in pharmacological experimentation particularly for the uses like malaria, 
health tonic, cancer, jaundice, hypertension and diabetes