
This is necessary to achieve the goals of improving overall metabolic measures 
beyond calorie restriction and weight loss. It revisits 
historical Indian studies and provides information on appropriate dietary intake 
of carbohydrates (60-70%), proteins (~ 20%) and fats (10%) that will be 
acceptable and beneficial in an Indian T2DM population. It discusses nuances of 
types of carbohydrates and fats and explains associations of increased dietary 
fiber intake, balanced intake of low and high glycemic index foods and 
substitution of saturated fats with plant-based polyunsaturated fats in 
improving outcomes of T2DM and attenuating risk factors. The article also 
deliberates upon special patient populations with comorbid conditions and 
diseases and the necessary adjustments needed in their nutritional care. Mauritius is famous for its floricultural diversity and traditions practiced across the island by various ethnic groups. During the British rule in the 1835s, Indian indentured labourers migrated to Mauritius and played a very important role in shaping the Mauritian culture. 
They brought along their high heritage of traditional knowledge of certain 
medicinal herbs and spices. Nonetheless, there has been no comparative study to 
investigate whether these past traditional knowledge are still preserved in 
Mauritius and India.To document and compare the traditional uses of medicinal 
herbs and spices brought by Indian indentured labourers with their current uses 
in Mauritius and India, and to review pharmacological studies of such plants.
The present review is aimed at providing in-depth information about the antidiabetic potential and bioactive compounds present in Ficus religiosa, Pterocarpus marsupium, Gymnema sylvestre,Allium sativum, Eugenia jambolana, Momordica charantia, and Trigonella 
foenum-graecum. The review provides a starting point for future studies aimed at 
isolation, purification, and characterization of bioactive antidiabetic 
compounds present in these plants.
Withania somnifera, also called 'Indian ginseng', is an important medicinal 
plant of the Indian subcontinent. In preclinical studies, it has shown anti-microbial, anti-inflammatory, anti-tumor, anti-stress, neuroprotective, cardioprotective, and anti-diabetic properties. Additionally, it has demonstrated the ability to reduce reactive oxygen species, modulate mitochondrial function, regulate apoptosis, and reduce inflammation and enhance endothelial function. In view of these pharmacologic properties, W.somnifera is a potential drug candidate to treat various clinical conditions, 
particularly related to the nervous system. 
Gymnema sylvestre (Retz.) R.Br. ex Sm. (Asclepiadaceae) is a well-known 
Ayurvedic anti-sweet plant for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Although it was previously proposed that G. sylvestre exhibits chemical 
variation based on geography, most research on G. sylvestre has used material 
originating from India. Morphological and anatomical descriptions, 
ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 DNA sequencing, and acid hydrolysis analyses showed that 
G. sylvestre samples from Vietnam are distinguishable from those of Indian 
origin and thus suggest a dissimilarity among G. sylvestre samples with 
different geographic distributions. An LC-MS-guided strategy targeting 
3β-glucuronide oleane-triterpenes in the Vietnamese G. sylvestre variety led to 
the isolation of four known compounds and nine previously undescribed compounds, 
named gymnemosides ND1-ND9. None of the isolated compounds were reported in the 
Indian sample, further supporting the geo-diversity of G. sylvestre. Three 
compounds, gymnemosides ND7-9, exerted significant stimulatory effects on the 
uptake of 2-NBDG in 3T3-L1 adipocyte cells and thus have potential as lead 
molecules for anti-diabetes agents.
Curcumin (diferuloylmethane) is the main curcuminoid of the popular Indian spice 
turmeric (Curcuma longa).the main role of polyphenols and curcumin for the prevention and 
treatment of many different inflammatory diseases and tumors.The 
anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and antitumor properties of curcumin are due to 
different cellular mechanisms: this compound, in fact, produces different 
responses in different cell types. Unfortunately, because of its low solubility 
and oral bioavailability, the biomedical potential of curcumin is not easy to 
exploit; for this reason more attention has been given to nanoparticles and 
liposomes, which are able to improve curcumin's bioavailability. 
Pharmacologically, curcumin does not show any dose-limiting toxicity when it is 
administered at doses of up to 8 g/day for three months. It has been 
demonstrated that curcumin has beneficial effects on several ocular diseases, 
such as chronic anterior uveitis, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, age-related 
macular degeneration, and dry eye syndrome. The purpose of this review is to 
report what has so far been elucidated about curcumin properties and its 
potential use in ophthalmology Besides, finding place as health supplements, 
nutraceuticals, cosmetics, herbal tea etc. there has been a global insurgence of 
interest, including India, leading to enormous research/activities in the area 
of medicinal plants.The article is aimed to provide the effort and initiatives of 
ICMR towards research on medicinal plants and its contributions on consolidation 
of Indian research on medicinal plants that are very relevant and important in 
the national context.
Coconut, Cocos nucifera L., is a tree that is cultivated for its multiple 
utilities, mainly for its nutritional and medicinal values. The various products 
of coconut include tender coconut water, copra, coconut oil, raw kernel, coconut 
cake, coconut toddy, coconut shell and wood based products, coconut leaves, coir 
pith . The parts of its fruit like coconut kernel and tender coconut water have numerous medicinal properties such as antibacterial, antifungal, antiviral, antiparasitic, 
antidermatophytic, antioxidant, hypoglycemic, hepatoprotective, immunostimulant. 
Coconut water and coconut kernel contain microminerals and nutrients, which are 
essential to human health, and hence coconut is used as food by the peoples in 
the globe, mainly in the tropical countries. The coconut palm is, therefore, 
eulogised as 'Kalpavriksha' (the all giving tree) in Indian classics, and thus 
the current review describes the facts and phenomena related to its use in 
health and disease prevention.
Medicinal plants have played an important role in treating and preventing a 
variety of diseases throughout the world. Metabolic syndrome had become a global 
epidemic, defined as a cluster of three of five criteria: insulin resistance and 
glucose intolerance, abdominal obesity, hypertension, low high-density 
cholesterol, and hypertriglyceridemia. The current review focuses on Indian 
medicinal plant drugs and plants used in the treatment of diabetes and 
hyperlipidemia. Though there are various approaches to reduce the ill-effects of 
diabetes and hyperlipidemia and its secondary complications, plant-based drugs 
are preferred due to lesser side effects and low cost. The current review 
focuses on twenty-three medicinal plants used in the treatment of Diabetes 
mellitus and nine medicinal plants used in the treatment of hyperlipidemia. The 
wealth of knowledge on medicinal plants points to a great potential for research 
and the discovery of new drugs to fight diseases, including diabetes and 
hyperlipidemia.
According to International Diabetes Federation (IDF), India has 62.4 million 
people with diabetes and by 2030 it is predicted that the number will rise to 
100 million.So, we created a database (InDiaMed) of Indian medicinal plants 
that captures their role in anti-diabetic activity. InDiaMed's features include 
chemical, pharmacological, biochemical and geographical information of the 
medicinal plant, scientifically relevant information of the plant, and the 
coherent research done on it in the field of diabetes. The database also 
includes the list of poly-herbal formulations which are used for treatment of 
diabetes in India.
The Zeliangrong people with their yearlong experiences still depend on the medicinal plants for primary healthcare. Some of the medicinal plants used by the community exhibits established pharmacological activities which signify the importance of the traditional knowledge of the tribes.  The study aimed to identify the medicinally and pharmacologically important species with understanding the traditional healing 
practices and to compare medicinal plant knowledge among the informants of the 
three tribes under Zeliangrong group.
Type 2 diabetes has become a global epidemic. Modern medicines, despite offering 
a variety of effective treatment options, can have several adverse effects. 
This paper reviews the accumulated literature for 10 Indian herbs that have antidiabetic activity and that have been scientifically tested. Few of these herbs, such as Momordica 
charantia, Pterocarpus marsupium, and Trigonella foenum greacum, have been 
reported to be beneficial for treating type 2 diabetes. Mechanisms such as the 
stimulating or regenerating effect on beta cells or extrapancreatic effects are 
proposed for the hypoglycemic action of these herbs.
Diabetes is a metabolic hyperglycemic condition that progressively develops, 
effect small and large sensory fibers in the affected population. It has various 
complications as hypertension, coronary artery disease, stroke, blindness, 
kidney disease as well as peripheral neuropathy. Sulfonylureas, 
thiazolidinediones, metformin, biguanidine, acarbose and insulin are commonly 
used drugs for diabetic patients, but these all have certain side effects. Even 
metformin, that is known as the miracle drug for diabetes has been found to be 
associated with side effects, as during treatment it involves complications with 
eyes, kidneys, peripheral nerves, heart and vasculature. In the present article, 
we hypothesize recent discoveries with respect to active ingredients from Indian 
medicinal plants i.e., polypeptide-p (protein analogue act as artificial 
insulin), charantin (a steroidal saponin), momordicin (an alkaloid) and osmotin 
(ubiquitous plant protein and animal analogue of human adeponectin) possessing 
anti-hyperglycemic potential for diabetes type II. 
this paper explores practices around Indians' and Pakistanis' use of herbal 
medications for diabetes control. The ethnographic study was conducted among 
Indian and Pakistani migrants in Edinburgh, Scotland and included extended 
participant observation, six group discussions and 21 semi-structured 
interviews. Respondents showed great resistance in adhering to medication 
prescriptions for diabetes control due to their various side effects, especially 
within the stomach. In order to avoid such side effects, respondents decreased 
medication dosage and turned to non-allopathic remedies that usually consisted 
of herbal medications that, according to Indians and Pakistanis, did not cause 
side effects as medications did and tackled the cause of the disease rather than 
its symptoms. Such remedies however, were not only combined with allopathic ones 
but also eventually replaced without the doctor's consultation.
Many plants have been used for the treatment of diabetes mellitus in Indian 
system of medicine and in other ancient systems of the world. From many such 
plants only extracts have been prepared and their usefulness evaluated in 
experimental diabetes in animals. In some plants likeAllium cepa, Allium 
sativum, Ficus bengalensis, Gymnema sylvestre, Pterocarpus marsupium etc. active 
hypoglycemic principles have been isolated and their mechanism of action 
studied. Most of them seem to act directly on pancreas (pancreatic effect) and 
stimulate insulin level in blood. Some have extra pancreatic effect also by 
acting directly on tissues like liver, muscle etc. and alter favourably the 
activities of the regulatory enzymes of glycolysis, gluconeogenesis and other 
pathways. Since the plant products have less side effects, they have the 
potential as good hypoglycemic drugs. They may also provide clues for the 
development of new and better oral drugs for diabetes.
A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of Gegen Qinlian decoction (GQD) for normalizing 
hyperglycemia in T2DM patients by pooling all available RCTs.
METHODS: All relevant RCTs were searched using the keywords: "GQD", "T2DM", 
"hyperglycemia" and "insulin" from the electronic databases including PubMed, 
EMBASE, Cochrane Library, Korean databases, Chinese medical databases, and 
Indian scientific database. Each RCT included the control (metformin) and 
experimental (GQD+metformin) groups. The outcome measures were the assessments 
of changes in the severity of diabetic symptoms such as "markedly effective" and 
"effective" (fasting plasma glucose levels: <7 and 7-9, respectively; 2h 
postprandial glucose levels: <8.3 and 8.3-10.5mmol/L, respectively) after 8 
weeks of treatment in each RCT.
Mangrove ecosystem has many potential species that are traditionally used by the 
coastal communities for their traditional cure for health ailments as evidenced 
by their extensive uses to treat hepatic disorders, diabetes, gastrointestinal 
disorders, anti-inflammation, anticancer, and skin diseases, etc. In this context, we aimed to compile the works done on the antidiabetic activities of mangrove species from Indian 
coastal regions especially on Andaman and Nicobar Islands as well as some recent 
works reported from other countries. A total of 126 published articles and 31 
mangrove species related pieces of information were gathered with reference to 
antidiabetic properties of mangroves. This review summarizes the chemical 
structures, molecular formula, molecular weight, and their biological activities 
with an aspiration that it might be helpful for the future bioprospecting 
industries who are interested in develop the natural drugs for DM.
We found no study that assessed Ayurvedic as a system of care. Botanical therapy was by far the most commonly studied Ayurvedic treatment. Herbs were studied either singly or as formulas. In all, 993 titles in Western computerized databases and 318 titles identified by hand-searching journals in India were examined, yielding 54 articles reporting the results of 62 studies. The most-studied herbs were G sylvestre, C indica, fenugreek, and 
Eugenia jambolana. A number of herbal formulas were tested, but Ayush-82 and 
D-400 were most often studied. Thirty-five of the studies included came from the 
Western literature, 27 from the Indian. Seven were randomized controlled trials 
(RCTs) and 10 controlled clinical trials (CCTs) or natural experiments. 
Twenty-two studies went on to further analysis based on a set of criteria. Of 
these, 10 were RCTs, CCTs, or natural experiments, 12 were case series or cohort 
studies. There is evidence to suggest that the herbs C indica, holy basil, 
fenugreek, and G sylvestre, and the herbal formulas Ayush-82 and D-400 have a 
glucose-lowering effect and deserve further study. Evidence of effectiveness of 
several other herbs is less extensive (C tamala, E jambolana, and Momordica 
charantia).
Diabetes mellitus is characterized by increased central arterial stiffness and 
endothelial dysfunction leading to increased risk of cardiovascular 
complications. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of Curcuma longa 
on arterial stiffness and endothelial dysfunction in patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus. This randomized controlled trial was conducted in 136 
patients of type 2 diabetes. Among them, 114 completed at least one follow-up 
visit and included for data analysis. Arterial stiffness parameters were 
measured at baseline and every month for 3 months and endothelial dysfunction 
markers at baseline and after 3 months of treatment with C. longa or placebo. 
These parameters were compared between the two groups. Both C. longa and placebo 
groups were comparable at baseline. After 3 months of treatment, C. longa 
produced significant reduction from baseline in carotid-femoral pulse wave 
velocity (p = .002), left brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (p = .001), aortic 
augmentation pressure (p = .007), aortic augmentation index (p = .007), and 
aortic augmentation index at heart rate 75 (p = .018) as compared with the 
placebo group. Three months treatment with C. longa significantly decreases 
arterial stiffness as compared with placebo in type 2 diabetes mellitus 
patients.
 In line with this modern paradigm and as a follow-up to our previous studies,the present study is designed to investigate the crude methanolic extracts and subsequent CHCl3, n-BuOH, and H2O fractions of Acalypha alnifolia, Pavetta indica, and Ochna obtusata for their inhibitory activities towards specific targets involved in AD and DM, namely,acetylcholinesterase, butyrylcholinesterase, and α-glucosidase (α-Glc). The 
methanolic extract and its derived chloroform fractions exhibited remarkable 
inhibitory capacities with IC50 values being found at the μg/mL level. Further 
studies on most active chloroform fractions presented a prominent ability to 
scavenge DPPH and ABTS reactive species and highest neuroprotective effect 
against H2O2 induced cell injury. Phytochemical analysis showed a large amount 
of phenolics, flavonoids, and terpenoids in active fractions.In conclusion, A. 
alnifolia, P. indica, and O. obtusata could be promising sources for the 
treatment of AD and DM since these fractions induced significant 
anticholinesterase, antidiabetic, antioxidant, and neuroprotection effects 
attributable to phenolic, flavonoid, and terpenoid contents and encourage 
further studies for development of multifunctional therapeutic agent for AD and 
DM dual therapy.treatment, which reduced the generation of LPO as well as iROS. Furthermore, the 
hyperglycemia-mediated augmentation of protein glycation, followed by the 
NOX4/p-47phox activation, diminished with the application of PPE-AuNP. The 
histological and immunohistochemical findings showed the protective efficacy of 
PPE-AuNP in reducing STZ-induced glomerular sclerosis and renal fibrosis. In 
addition, it reduced proinflammatory burden through the modulation of the 
MAPK/NF-κB/STAT3/cytokine axis. Simultaneously, PI3K/AKT-guided Nrf2 activation 
was evident upon the PPE-AuNP application, which enhanced the antioxidant 
response and maintained hyperglycemic homeostasis.
CONCLUSION: The findings indicate that the use of PPE-AuNPs might act as an 
economic therapeutic remedy for alleviating DN.

